Abstract
This research examines government policies and urban transformation in China through a study of Hangzhou City, which is undergoing dramatic growth and restructuring. As the southern center of the Yangtze River Delta, an emerging global city region of China, Hangzhou has been restlessly searching for strategies to promote economic growth and survive the competition with Shanghai. This paper analyzes Hangzhou’s development strategies, including globalization, tourism, industrial development, and urban development, in the context of shifting macro conditions and local responses. We hold that urban policies in China are situated in the broad economic restructuring and the gradual, experiential national reform and are therefore transitional. The paper suggests that China’s urban policies are state institution-directed, growth-oriented, and land-based, imposing unprecedented challenges to sustainability and livability. Land development and spatial restructuring are central to urban policies in China. Last, while Hangzhou’s development strategies and policies to some extent reflect policy convergence across cities in China, local/spatial contexts, including local settings, territorial rescaling and land conditions, are underlying the functioning of development/entrepreneurial states.

Highlights
► This paper analyzes government policies and urban transformation in Hangzhou city. ► Urban policies in China are transitional. ► China's urban policies are state institutions-directed and growth-oriented.

Introduction
China has been undergoing rapid growth and transition from state socialism since the reform of the late 1970s. Chinese cities have been transformed from socialist cities to post-socialist cities characterized by transitional institutions, developmental/entrepreneurial states, hybrid urbanization, and multi-layered space (Gaubatz, 2008, Heikkila, 2007, Li, 2005, Luo and Wei, 2009, Ma, 2002, Wei, 2010, Wu and Phelps, 2011). CBDs and development zones have become frontiers of globalization, and a polycentric urban development model can be observed as well. The growth and transformation of Chinese cities are driven by reforms from above and below, and by forces operating domestically and globally, trigged by the triple transitions of decentralization, marketization, and globalization in China (Wei, 2007).

The Chinese state has been transformed from a socialist state and a provider of public goods to a developmental/entrepreneurial state that actively promotes globalization, economic development, and urban growth (Li and Li, 2009, Luo and Shen, 2008, Ma, 2002, Wei, 2005, Zhang, 2002). The transformation of local states is also shaped by the broad contexts of globalization and economic transition, and the local context of specific cities. The trajectories of urban development can be created by different local processes embedded in city-specific culture, history, and economic and political systems (Li & Li, 2009). A better understanding of the changing role of the state and the transformation of the Chinese cities is necessary to cope with rapid economic growth and urbanization in China.

This paper examines urban policies and urban transformation in China through a study of Hangzhou Municipality, with a focus on the city proper or city districts (hereafter Hangzhou City or Hangzhou). The content of urban policies and the role of the state in Hangzhou have significance beyond the city itself; they well represent the changing nature of local states and urban governance in China, and to some extent, correspond to the broad change in governance and strategies across the urban world. The study of Hangzhou should shed more light on the understanding of urban development/transformation and the role of the state, especially in developing or transitional countries. After the following sections on conceptual background and research context, this paper analyzes in detail the specific development strategies and policies, and the transformation of the city. We also discuss the consequences and limitations of government policies.

Section snippets
Transitional cities, developmental/entrepreneurial cities, and globalizing cities
Chinese cities have been transformed from socialist cities to post-socialist transitional cities. Since the late 1970s, China has adopted a gradual, experiential approach to reforms. Scholars have been very interested in the process, characteristics, and consequences of economic reforms in former socialist countries. They have been debating the nature of reform and transition in China and are concerned with social costs and spatial ramifications of reform. Mao’s state socialism and

Hangzhou: research setting and development process
Hangzhou, an ancient capital of China, is representative of coastal metropolises that are undergoing dramatic growth and restructuring. Established in the Qin Dynasty (222 BC), Hangzhou is one of the ancient capitals of China (Fig. 1) and a traditional commercial center—especially after construction of the Grand Canal in AD 610 (the Sui Dynasty) connected the Delta with the political center in the north—and the city prospered when it became the national capital during the Southern Song Dynasty

“Geneva of the Orient?” making Hangzhou a world-class tourism city
Hangzhou, like many other Chinese cities, has been continuously searching for strategies of development, prosperity, and building its own identity. The roles of urban landscapes and tourism development has long been a point of debate among policy makers in Hangzhou. The 1953 preliminary plan of Hangzhou proposed to develop the city into one with a beautiful landscape for leisure and renovation, followed by the construction of hotels, landscape sites, and tourism service facilities (Wei, 2005).

It’s the industry, stupid: development zones, high-tech industry and economic growth
During Mao’s era, like other Chinese cities influenced by the Soviet-model of industrialization, Hangzhou proposed, in 1958, to build the city into an industrial (manufacturing) city. In the following years, an oil refinery and many factories were established, including steel, auto, and heavy chemical factories, making Hangzhou the primary industrial city of Zhejiang. While the 1981 Plan proposed to develop Hangzhou into a tourism city, industrial bureaus were concerned about the limited

Administrative rescaling, urban planning and spatial restructuring for growth
Administrative rescaling and urban planning are central to development policies and strategies in China, rooted in local states’ seeking land to fuel economic growth in Chinese cities (Luo and Shen, 2008, Ma, 2005). Hangzhou has experienced several rounds of administrative rescaling and urban planning, which have accelerated urban expansion and the spatial restructuring of Hangzhou toward a multi-nuclei city. Such a dramatic administrative rescaling and revisions of master plans were also

“Oriental Leisure Capital?” challenges to livability and sustainability
Hangzhou has significantly improved its economic conditions and urban infrastructure since the reform. In 2010, Hangzhou Municipality had GDP of 509 billion yuan (Table 2), ranking second among provincial capitals in China (SSB, 2010). The discourse of the city has also been increasingly moving toward livability or quality of life, with the promotion of “Oriental Leisure Capital.” In late 2006, Hangzhou called for a national competition for the image of the city. “A City with Flavor and Quality 

Conclusion
The process of decentralization has decentralized power and responsibilities to local governments, while marketization and globalization have forced China to face market forces and global restructuring, making Chinese cities more competitive and growth-oriented. The triple transitions of decentralization, marketization, and globalization have created a growth-oriented environment, and empowered local states in pursuit of growth, which corresponds to the change of governance in developed

Acknowledgment
We’d like to acknowledge the funding of Lincoln Institute of Land Policy (CYW010511) and University of Utah Funding Incentive Seed Grant (51003414). We would also like to thank the research assistance of Zhouyang Wang and Haifeng Liao.